# A Model-Based Enterprise Assessment of Various Design Activities  

The Model-Based Enterprise (MBE) Self-Assessment tool is outlined by the National Institute of Standards and Technology, or NIST. The NIST assessment tool divides MBE readiness into 6 levels. {}

1. **Product Definition** - Geometry, **Product Manufacturing Information (PMI)**
2. **Engineering Bill of Materials (EBOM)** - Product structure as designed, contains list of items, assemblies, sub-assemblies. Organized by systems or functionality so integrated product teams can cooperate within a system.
3. **Analysis** - Anything that will be used to predict the performance of the design.
4. **Checking and Model Quality** - Ensures a high quality **Technical Data Package (TDP)**
{[202110032329](../202110032329) - The Purpose & Benefits of a Technical Data Pack (TDP)}

---
* *Level 0*
	1. Product Definition - Only using drawings.
	2. EBOM - Manually defined
	3. Analysis - Calculations based on manual methods and spreadsheets.
	4. Checking and Model Quality - 2D drawings are manually validated and inspected
	5. Logistics/Technical Manuals - 2D drawings, some manual "art", and some cut-and-paste.
---
* *Level 1*
	1. Product Definition - Drawing is derived fom a model, but is completely disconnected.
	2. EBOM - Manually defined. Still not linked.
	3. Analysis - New CAD models are manually generated to support analysis activities.
	4. Checking and Model Quality - Constructed 3D model, but still using 2D drawings to validate design.
	5. Logistics/Technical Manuals - 2D drawings, some manual "art", and some cut-and-paste.

---
*Level 2*
    1. Product Definition - Models are managed with the drawing.
    2. EBOM - Some or all of EBOM is extracted from the product structure.
    3. Analysis - Native CAD model is reused as the analytical model with some modifications.
    4. Checking and Model Quality - Validating 2D drawings and 3D model geometry.
	5. Logistics/Technical Manuals - 2D art and more cut-and-paste. Some 3D images embedded in the document.
---
* *Level 3*
    1. Product Definition - Models contains some PMI and the drawing is supplemental.
    2. EBOM - EBOM managed within PLM or ERP tool. Available for distribution for MBOM (Manufactureing bill of materials.
    3. Analysis -Increase the reuse of the model.
    4. Checking and Model Quality - 3D model geometry and part annotations are validated
	5. Logistics/Technical Manuals- 3D images from the model replace some manual art.
---
* *Level 4*
    1. Product Definition -Model contains complete product definition. PMI and drawings are unnecessary. Geometry views are organized by a model based design schema, which provides a layout for storing and reading product definition information.
    2. EBOM - PLM based EBOM can be copied and modified to satisfy MBOM needs
    3. Analysis -  Increase the reuse of the model.
	4. Checking and Model Quality -
	5. Logistics/Technical Manuals - 3D representations replaces 2D depictions
---
* *Level 5*        
	1. Product Definition - Model begins to be utilized in non-traditional activities and penetrates other parts of our enterprise.
    2. EBOM - EBOM is completely managed in a PLM system using CAD tools and automation software.
    3. Analysis - Model is reused as the analytical model without any modifications
	4. Checking and Model Quality -
	5. Logistics/Technical Manuals - Most likely generated by data and image mining, some automation is used.
---
* *Level 6*
    1. Product Definition - Model drives all associated activities whether in our organization or other parts of our extended enterprise. Entire supply chain uses the model.
    2. EBOM - Automation software is used to develop other BOMs automatically and shared.
    3. Analysis - Analysis is automatically performed as design progresses.

    4. Checking and Model Quality -
	5. Logistics/Technical Manuals - Completely automated technical manual creation.

## Tags
#systems
