# Aerodynamic Lift and Drag

When fluid flows over an object, a force gets exerted onto the object which has two components: Lift and Drag. These component forces are called **aerodynamic** forces when the fluid is air and **hydrodynamic** forces when the fluid is water.

## What
**Lift** is the component that is perpendicular to the free-stream velocity of the fluid. 

**Drag** is the component that is parallel to the free-stream velocity of the fluid.

<Insert link to free stream velocity>
## How
The only way fluid can impart force onto an object is through pressure and shear stresses that occur on the object. For stream-lined bodies, lift is largely generated by the pressure stresses. The majority of the pressure force comes from the pressure difference at the forward portion of the airfoil.

<Insert link to pressure, shear stress, stream-lined bodies>

If we know exactly how these stresses are distributed, we can integrate them to find out exactly the lift (vertical direction) and drag (horizontal direction) forces.
## More on Drag
The drag force due to pressure stresses is called *pressure drag* and the drag force due to shear stresses is called *friction drag*.

A blunt body like a sphere has a significant amount of pressure drag and little friction drag. This because of the large *separation region* (wake) of low-pressure that the body leaves behind when in fluid flow, due to *flow-separation*. <insert link on flow-separation which links to favorable and adverse pressure gradient>

## OK but how
**Shear Stresses**


**Pressure Stresses**
There are two simple explanations for the pressure stresses that give valuable insight but are incomplete:

1. **Bernoulli's Principle** [202110122335](../202110122335) - The Bernoulli Equation \
The fluid traveling above the surface of the airfoil travels faster than free-stream velocity and the fluid traveling below the surface of the airfoil travels slower. Therefore, according to Bernoulli, a region of low-pressure is created, imparting a suction force on the top surface of the airfoil, and a region of high-pressure is created, imparting a pushing force on the bottom surface of the airfoil.

Explanation for difference in velocities above and below airfoil can be attributed to circulatory flow induced by the airfoil because the Kutta Condition must be satisfied <Insert link on the Kutta Condition, which links to circulatory and uniform, nonrotational flow>. Counter clock-wise circulatory flow would explain the acceleration in flow above the airfoil and deceleration below.

2. **Newton's Third Law** <Insert link on Newtons Third Law>
Focusing on the effects of an airfoil far away from the airfoil itself, it is observed that the fluid is being swept upward (upwash) forward the airfoil, and downard (downwash) aft. For every action, there is an equal and opposite reaction. The airfoil generates lift by turning the incoming air downwards, thereby exchanging momentum with the air.

Explanation for the generated upwash and downwash can again be attribute to circulatory flow.



## Tags
#aerodynamics #incomplete
