# Evidence of Excellence

1. As part of my senior design class at university, I took a bold approach to arrive at a coherent solution for our final project. I wrote a python script to rapidly iterate the design of a launch vehicle until the desired orbit is reached. The script sizes the vehicle, runs trajectory simulations, performs stress analysis, and repeats the process, recording multiple design solutions that resulted in mission success.

2. Also during my senior year at university, as a side project/club, I used SolidWorks to model an unlike-impinging injector plate, 3D-printed a prototype, and conducted a water flow test at 100 psi to collect flow-rate and pressure data. The results were an expected parabolic relationship between flow-rate and pressure, and discharge coefficients of 0.8 and 0.9 (for fuel and oxidizer orifices, respectively). The high discharge coefficients were unexpected, which leads me to believe the flow meters were calibrated improperly, reading more flow than actual.

3. For my CFD course at university, I programmed a fluid dynamics simulation in MATLAB to solve the 2D lid-driven square cavity problem. The purpose of the project was to visualize how the velocity gradient of the fluid inside the cavity changes over time when a lid is dragged over it. I first derived finite difference formulations of the Navier Stokes equations for incompressible, rotational, and viscous fluid in the x, y, and time components. Next, I initialized a grid to mesh the cavity and selected a time step. At each time step, I traversed the grid in a breadth-first-search fashion, computing the velocity of each cell by taking the velocity of neighboring cells as inputs to the derived equations. The simulation produces a colorized video plot of the velocity gradient.

4. More recently I've been diving into web development. I am currently hosting a public personal website, written in React, on an AWS EC2 instance, the DNS settings of which are configured with AWS Route 53 to point to my google domain. I am also hosting another web app on a raspberry pi, which my home router port forwards to. I am using the pi to control my AquaLink pool & spa over the internet, for another convenient access point aside from the control panel in the kitchen. As a security measure, the web app requires a login to authenticate the user before accessing the controls. The pi communicates with the pool & spa control panel through an RS485 cable (much credit to https://github.com/sfeakes/AqualinkD).

## Tags
#career
