# Read Write Own: Building the Next Era of the Internet

*Read Write Own* by Chris Dixon is a book for internet enthusiasts, technologists, developers, content creators, and everyday people-- after all, the internet has become so integrated with our everyday lives that everyone should have some understanding of where it's headed.  

Chris starts by describing the origins of the internet and the opportunities it created thanks to the open and shared protocols built on top of it: web and email. He explains how and why corporate networks grew so large, and argues they changed the landscape of the internet for the worse. In the early days of the internet, the flow of information was balanced, not concentrated. Now, corporate networks like Facebook, TikTok, Instagram, and Twitter control most of the internet traffic thanks to their convenience-- but at what cost? Well, they take 99% of the value generated by its users, giving them back a mere 1%. YouTube is the exception, where they give ~55% back to the creators.  

The book goes on to describe a different future of the internet-- one that's possible thanks to blockchain technology-- that solves the problems of bare protocol networks (lack of security, low-quality services, etc.) and the problems of corporate networks (concentrated power, unreliable, ever-changing network rules, high take-rates). Blockchains distribute power back to the edge nodes-- the users, developers, and content creators-- and put the fate of the blockchain back in their hands, like the early days of the internet. A blockchain is like a city and the users are the citizens. With blockchain technology, you can vote to establish the rules of the game-- rules that are fair and reliable. These rules make up the backbone of a blockchain's economy: How do we incentivize consumers, content creators, and developers? How do we "tax" them to sustain the blockchain? How do we compensate them? Blockchain enables a virtual economy to flourish. You can build, buy, sell, mix, and re-compose services and virtual goods. This is the future of the internet, known as web3, that is now possible thanks to blockhain technology.  

## References
[Read Write Own by Chris Dixon](https://www.amazon.com/Read-Write-Own-Building-Internet/dp/0593731387/ref=sr_1_2?crid=3K74SH1UK6X4H&dib=eyJ2IjoiMSJ9.MJQzGceTThHhFyJcHhAXDn94FtCvmlQjKQQD2hd36qMmZCiZykR_RtXgY13-559k2__iRqrn5npXIs7LG0wI4q1xZHuhb9LAlAbJJolaaW690tabQV0YNeFSKdEoD_KBg6DZvCyzXswukUE-T2-rZ5hXF53N4bcvgPCmXH9kYM55bRHYtuGj4QrLSuBwPMSsEowpY0tdvSJAmQl74sPvMvBwZQbuvdOj9KhX24qXHDo.-DroAsTCJXWqGDYJDtg6-8XNxI6zefHu2hiEWZCJ2bA&dib_tag=se&keywords=read+write+own&qid=1710974663&sprefix=read+write+o%2Caps%2C266&sr=8-2)

## Tags
#books
